    Para información en español, visite www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore o escribe a la
     Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552.

        A Summary of Your Rights Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act

         The federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) promotes the accuracy, fairness, and
privacy of information in the files of consumer reporting agencies. There are many types of
consumer reporting agencies, including credit bureaus and specialty agencies (such as agencies
that sell information about check writing histories, medical records, and rental history records).
Here is a summary of your major rights under FCRA. For more information, including
information about additional rights, go to www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore or write
to: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552.

   •   You must be told if information in your file has been used against you. Anyone who
       uses a credit report or another type of consumer report to deny your application for credit,
       insurance, or employment – or to take another adverse action against you – must tell you,
       and must give you the name, address, and phone number of the agency that provided the
       information.

   •   You have the right to know what is in your file. You may request and obtain all the
       information about you in the files of a consumer reporting agency (your “file
       disclosure”). You will be required to provide proper identification, which may include
       your Social Security number. In many cases, the disclosure will be free. You are entitled
       to a free file disclosure if:

           o a person has taken adverse action against you because of information in your
             credit report;
           o you are the victim of identity theft and place a fraud alert in your file;
           o your file contains inaccurate information as a result of fraud;
           o you are on public assistance;
           o you are unemployed but expect to apply for employment within 60 days.

       In addition, all consumers are entitled to one free disclosure every 12 months upon
       request from each nationwide credit bureau and from nationwide specialty consumer
       reporting agencies. See www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore for additional
       information.

   •   You have the right to ask for a credit score. Credit scores are numerical summaries of
       your credit-worthiness based on information from credit bureaus. You may request a
       credit score from consumer reporting agencies that create scores or distribute scores used
       in residential real property loans, but you will have to pay for it. In some mortgage
       transactions, you will receive credit score information for free from the mortgage lender.

   •   You have the right to dispute incomplete or inaccurate information. If you identify
       information in your file that is incomplete or inaccurate, and report it to the consumer


                                                                                                     1
    reporting agency, the agency must investigate unless your dispute is frivolous. See
    www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore for an explanation of dispute procedures.

•   Consumer reporting agencies must correct or delete inaccurate, incomplete, or
    unverifiable information. Inaccurate, incomplete, or unverifiable information must be
    removed or corrected, usually within 30 days. However, a consumer reporting agency
    may continue to report information it has verified as accurate.

•   Consumer reporting agencies may not report outdated negative information. In
    most cases, a consumer reporting agency may not report negative information that is
    more than seven years old, or bankruptcies that are more than 10 years old.

•   Access to your file is limited. A consumer reporting agency may provide information
    about you only to people with a valid need – usually to consider an application with a
    creditor, insurer, employer, landlord, or other business. The FCRA specifies those with a
    valid need for access.

•   You must give your consent for reports to be provided to employers. A consumer
    reporting agency may not give out information about you to your employer, or a potential
    employer, without your written consent given to the employer. Written consent generally
    is not required in the trucking industry. For more information, go to
    www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore.

•   You may limit “prescreened” offers of credit and insurance you get based on
    information in your credit report. Unsolicited “prescreened” offers for credit and
    insurance must include a toll-free phone number you can call if you choose to remove
    your name and address from the lists these offers are based on. You may opt out with the
    nationwide credit bureaus at 1-888-567-8688.

•   The following FCRA right applies with respect to nationwide consumer reporting
    agencies:

    CONSUMERS HAVE THE RIGHT TO OBTAIN A SECURITY FREEZE

    You have a right to place a “security freeze” on your credit report, which will
    prohibit a consumer reporting agency from releasing information in your credit
    report without your express authorization. The security freeze is designed to prevent
    credit, loans, and services from being approved in your name without your consent.
    However, you should be aware that using a security freeze to take control over who gets
    access to the personal and financial information in your credit report may delay, interfere
    with, or prohibit the timely approval of any subsequent request or application you make
    regarding a new loan, credit, mortgage, or any other account involving the extension of
    credit.

    As an alternative to a security freeze, you have the right to place an initial or extended
    fraud alert on your credit file at no cost. An initial fraud alert is a 1-year alert that is

                                                                                                   2
       placed on a consumer’s credit file. Upon seeing a fraud alert display on a consumer’s
       credit file, a business is required to take steps to verify the consumer’s identity before
       extending new credit. If you are a victim of identity theft, you are entitled to an extended
       fraud alert, which is a fraud alert lasting 7 years.

       A security freeze does not apply to a person or entity, or its affiliates, or collection
       agencies acting on behalf of the person or entity, with which you have an existing
       account that requests information in your credit report for the purposes of reviewing or
       collecting the account. Reviewing the account includes activities related to account
       maintenance, monitoring, credit line increases, and account upgrades and enhancements.

   •   You may seek damages from violators. If a consumer reporting agency, or, in some
       cases, a user of consumer reports or a furnisher of information to a consumer reporting
       agency violates the FCRA, you may be able to sue in state or federal court.

   •   Identity theft victims and active duty military personnel have additional rights. For
       more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore.

States may enforce the FCRA, and many states have their own consumer reporting laws.
In some cases, you may have more rights under state law. For more information, contact
your state or local consumer protection agency or your state Attorney General. For
information about your federal rights, contact:




                                                                                                  3
            TYPE OF BUSINESS:                                                               CONTACT:
1.a. Banks, savings associations, and credit unions with       a. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
total assets of over $10 billion and their affiliates          1700 G Street NW
                                                               Washington, DC 20552

b. Such affiliates that are not banks, savings                 b. Federal Trade Commission
associations, or credit unions also should list, in addition   Consumer Response Center
to the CFPB:                                                   600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
                                                               Washington, DC 20580
                                                               (877) 382-4357
2. To the extent not included in item 1 above:                 a. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
a. National banks, federal savings associations, and           Customer Assistance Group
federal branches and federal agencies of foreign banks         P.O. Box 53570
                                                               Houston, TX 77052

b. State member banks, branches and agencies of                b. Federal Reserve Consumer Help Center
foreign banks (other than federal branches, federal            P.O. Box 1200
agencies, and Insured State Branches of Foreign Banks),        Minneapolis, MN 55480
commercial lending companies owned or controlled by
foreign banks, and organizations operating under section       c. Division of Depositor and Consumer Protection
25 or 25A of the Federal Reserve Act.                          National Center for Consumer and Depositor Assistance
                                                               Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
c. Nonmember Insured Banks, Insured State Branches of          1100 Walnut Street, Box #11
Foreign Banks, and insured state savings associations          Kansas City, MO 64106

d. Federal Credit Unions                                       d. National Credit Union Administration
                                                               Office of Consumer Financial Protection
                                                               1775 Duke Street
                                                               Alexandria, VA 22314
3. Air carriers                                                Assistant General Counsel for Office of Aviation Consumer Protection
                                                               Department of Transportation
                                                               1200 New Jersey Avenue SE
                                                               Washington, DC 20590
4. Creditors Subject to the Surface Transportation Board       Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance
                                                               Surface Transportation Board
                                                               395 E Street SW
                                                               Washington, DC 20423
5. Creditors Subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act,        Nearest Packers and Stockyards Division Regional Office
1921
6. Small Business Investment Companies                         Associate Administrator, Office of Capital Access
                                                               United States Small Business Administration
                                                               409 Third Street SW, Suite 8200
                                                               Washington, DC 20416
7. Brokers and Dealers                                         Securities and Exchange Commission
                                                               100 F Street NE
                                                               Washington, DC 20549
8. Institutions that are members of the Farm Credit            Farm Credit Administration
System                                                         1501 Farm Credit Drive
                                                               McLean, VA 22102-5090
9. Retailers, Finance Companies, and All Other                 Federal Trade Commission
Creditors Not Listed Above                                     Consumer Response Center
                                                               600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
                                                               Washington, DC 20580
                                                               (877) 382-4357


                                                                                                                             4
